README.md, before:

# Scrolls of Banestones

Scrolls of Banestones is an open source multi-player third person fantasy RPG game set in a fictional universe.
It will be a free, open-source, cross-platform multi-player RPG expierience with intended mod support.

This project is currently within the design stage and no code has actually been written as of yet.

## Project Stages
Read the core Stages document to get a grasp of the current stage of the project.  
[See here](../master/Documentation/Stages.md)

## Core Vision Document
Read the core Vision document to get a grasp of the core idea's and the vision for the game including the design pillars.  
[See here](../master/Documentation/CoreVision.md)

## Game Design Document
The game design document will be written once we have completed the Core Vision Document.

## Questions and Answers
### How long will it be until development has started?
I cannot be sure of that to be honest. I'd say probably a year at least from the creation of this repository. If we need to spend a year on the design document, that is fine, but I'd like to keep the scope under control and not get too big. I'd expect it to be playable well before a 1.0 release (even if not fully complete).

### Will this game be completly free?
Yes, it will be free as in beer and free as in freedom. This game will be licensed under the GPL to make sure that it stays free (free beer and freedom).

### What engine will you be using?
That has not been decided as of yet. We could use Unity, Unreal, CryEngine or we could roll our own engine, the last option seems to be the most common for many open-source games and remakes (such as 0 A.D. and OpenMW).

### What language will be used?
That depends on what engine we decide to use. If we go down the Unity3D route, it'll be C#. If we go Unreal, C++. If we roll our own, that'll depend on the engine we design.

### Where did the name Scroll of Banestones come from?
That was a completely random name, god only knows where that name came from.

Commit message:

Add Source code folder with a simple readme file. Also update the current root-level readme.

README.md, after:

# Scrolls of Banestones

Scrolls of Banestones is an open source multi-player third person fantasy RPG game set in a fictional universe.
It will be a free, open-source, cross-platform multi-player RPG expierience with intended mod support.

This project is currently within the design stage and no code has actually been written as of yet.

## Project Stages
Read the core Stages document to get a grasp of the current stage of the project.  
[See here](../master/Documentation/Stages.md)

## Core Vision Document
Read the core Vision document to get a grasp of the core idea's and the vision for the game including the design pillars.  
[See here](../master/Documentation/CoreVision.md)

## Game Design Document
The game design document will be written once we have completed the Core Vision Document.

## Questions and Answers
### How long will it be until development has started?
I cannot be sure of that to be honest. I'd say probably a year at least from the creation of this repository. If we need to spend a year on the design document, that is fine, but I'd like to keep the scope under control and not get too big. I'd expect it to be playable well before a 1.0 release (even if not fully complete).

### Will this game be completly free?
Yes, it will be free as in beer and free as in freedom. This game will be licensed under the MIT to make sure that it stays free (free beer and freedom) and permissive (meaning you can make a closed source clone).

The game assets though will most likely be kept under a seperate license.

### What engine will you be using?
That has not been decided as of yet. We could use Unity, Unreal, CryEngine or we could roll our own engine, the last option seems to be the most common for many open-source games and remakes (such as 0 A.D. and OpenMW).

### What language will be used?
That depends on what engine we decide to use. If we go down the Unity3D route, it'll be C#. If we go Unreal, C++. If we roll our own, that'll depend on the engine we design.

### Where did the name Scroll of Banestones come from?
That was a completely random name, god only knows where that name came from.
